...\" Copyright 1991,1992,1993 Open Software Foundation, Inc.,
...\" Cambridge, Massachusetts
...\" All rights reserved.
...\"
...\" @OSF_FREE_COPYRIGHT@
...\"
...\" HISTORY
...\" $Log: book-format.1,v $
...\" Revision 1.1.2.7  1994/06/24  15:16:08  fred
...\" 	free copyright
...\" 	[1994/06/23  20:15:18  fred]
...\"
...\" Revision 1.1.2.6  1994/06/23  18:40:04  fred
...\" 	free copyright
...\" 	[1994/06/22  19:34:10  fred]
...\" 
...\" Revision 1.1.2.5  1993/12/09  14:21:55  rcb
...\" 	Made changes requested by DTE CR 449, including adding -sml and -nosml to
...\" 	SYNOPSIS, changing order of flag descriptions to match SYNOPSIS, and
...\" 	correcting a typo.
...\" 	[1993/12/09  14:21:45  rcb]
...\" 
...\" Revision 1.1.2.4  1993/04/10  01:22:40  bowe
...\" 	Add OSF copyright.
...\" 	[1993/04/10  01:20:22  bowe]
...\" 
...\" Revision 1.1.2.3  1993/02/26  13:58:06  bowe
...\" 	Documented the "-nochange" option.
...\" 	[1993/02/26  13:52:06  bowe]
...\" 
...\" Revision 1.1.2.2  1992/07/07  22:26:28  bowe
...\" 	Initial rev.
...\" 	[1992/07/07  22:24:31  bowe]
...\" 
...\" $EndLog$
...\" $Header: /u1/rcs/dte/doc/user.gd/book-format.1,v 1.1.2.7 1994/06/24 15:16:08 fred Exp $
...\"
.TH book-format 1
.SH NAME
book-format \- format book source files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B book-format
[ \fB-n\fP | \fB-t\fP | \fB-x\fP ] 
[ \fB-sml\fP | \fB-nosml\fP ]
[ \fB-d\fP | \fB-p\fP ] [ \fB-v\fP ]
[ \fB-T\fItypesetter\fP ] [ \fB-D\fIsymbol\fP ...] [ \fB-showifdef\fP ]
[ \fB-des\fP \fIfile\fP ]
[ \fB-libdir\fP \fIdirectory\fP ] [ \fB-output\fP \fIdirectory\fP ]
[ \fB-mac\fP \fImacro-file\fP ]
[ \fB-book\fP \fIname\fP ]
[ \fB-alt\fP \fIdirectory\fP ]
[ \fB-version\fP ]
[ \fB-printorder\fP ]
[ \fB-nochange\fP ]
[ \fB-help\fP ]
[ \fBbody\fP ] [ \fBtoc\fP ] [ \fBindex\fP ] [ \fBglossary\fP ]
[ \fIpiece\fP ] [ \fBall\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B book-format
command is used to format books or pieces of books.
Options may appear in any order, except the pieces to format,
which must appear last.
.PP
A book is described by a \fIdescription(4)\fP file which lists all the
pieces of the book in order.
Pieces include the title page, preface, and appendices.
There is one piece per file; separation is strictly up to the writer.
The description file may have comments, lines whose first character is `#',
and blank lines.
All other lines are significant.
.PP
Output is placed in subdirectories, one formatted piece per file.
While building a book, intermediate information, that is state information
at the end of each piece, is kept in a directory called \fISync\fP.
This information is used when building a single piece of the book.
.PP
\fBbook-format\fP calls the program \fBformat-piece\fP,
which does all the work, calling nroff or troff along with the appropriate
preprocessors and macros.
.SH "OPTIONS"
The following are the possible parameters to \fBbook-format\fP:
.TP 8
.B -n
Build with nroff.
.TP 8
.B -t
Build with troff (default).
.TP 8
.B -x
Build with express.
.TP 8
.B -sml
Use the SML macros instead of plain -mm.
.TP 8
.B -nosml
Do not use the SML macros instead of plain -mm (default).
.TP 8
.B -d
Draft formatting.
.TP 8
.B -p
Publish formatting (default).
.TP 8
.B -v
Displays some debugging information that provides more detail about
the processing steps, including the sequence of the macro packages called.
.TP 8
.B -T\fItypesetter\fP
if using troff, use \fItypesetter\fP (default \fIps\fP).
.TP 8
.B -D\fIsymbol\fP
Pipe document source through \fBrmifdef\fP, defining \fIsymbol\fP.
This will only happen if the directive \fI...\e"build rmifdef\fP
is within an initial, contiguous block of comments in the source files.
You can have multiple -D options on the command line.
-D options may be included in the description file in place of the command
line.
If symbols are defined on the command line in this way, all -D directives in
the description file are ignored.
-D with no \fIsymbol\fP following will specify that the files are to be
processed through \fBrmifdef\fP with no symbols defined.
.TP 8
.B -showifdef
Show all #if, #ifdef, #else, and #endif directives by making them bold and
surrounding them by a small amount of vertical space.
This option disables all #ifdef processing with rmifdef.
.TP 8
.B -des \fIfile\fP
specify alternate description file (default \fI./Description\fP).
.TP 8
.B -libdir \fIdirectory\fP
Set library directory of Documentation Tools Environment (DTE)
(default $DTE_LIBDIR, if set, or /project/tools/libdata).
.TP 8
.B -output \fIdirectory\fP
Set directory for output (default $OUTPUT, if set, or \fI./Output\fP).
.TP 8
.B -mac \fImacro-file\fP
Include \fImacro-file\fP after other macro files and before your source file.
To include several files either use multiple \fB-mac\fP \fImacro-file\fP
arguments or use quotes around multiple words for \fImacro-file\fP.
.TP 8
.B -book \fIname\fP
When creating a glossary, retrieve only those definitions from the
glossary database associated with book \fIname\fP, where \fIname\fP
must be a book identifier listed in the \fBbookdefs.mac\fP file.
If this option is not specified, definitions for all books will be retrieved.
The book name may also be specified in the description file.
A book name specified on the command line overrides that specified in
the description file.
.TP 8
.B -alt \fIdirectory\fP
When building a book some source files may be located in \fIdirectory\fP,
allowing writers to keep a subset of files of a book in a working directory
during development of that book.
.TP 8
.B -version
Display version information about \fBbook-format\fP, then exit.
This is useful for reporting bugs to the maintainers.
.TP 8
.B -printorder
Name the output files so that they will list in the order of the pieces in
the description file.
Names are preceded by a 3-digit number related to the piece number.
This allows one to print the files in order with \fIlpr *\fP.
.TP 8
.B -nochange
Do not produce change markers in the output.
(These are produced by the zA and zZ macros.)
.TP 8
.B -help
Print a help message summarizing options and usage.
.TP 8
.B body
Builds the entire document body.
.TP 8
.B toc
Builds the document table of contents.
.TP 8
.B index
Builds the document index.
.TP 8
.B glossary
Builds the document glossary.
.TP 8
.I piece
Builds only that named piece
(piece names are the first column in the description file).
.TP 8
.B all
Build everything (all pieces, toc, index, glossary.
.PP
By default \fBbook-format\fP looks for the description file in the
current directory.
.PP
Formatting \fBall\fP creates synchronization files that are used later if
the user wants to format a \fBpiece\fP of the book.
This information is also needed for table of contents, index, and
glossary generation.
Individual pieces can not be formatted unless \fBbook-format ... all\fP
has been done.
.SH "FILES"
.TP 16
$DTE_LIBDIR/macros
troff/nroff macros directory
.TP 16
$DTE_LIBDIR/glossary
glossary database directory
.TP 16
\&./Description
description file describing book
.SH "CUSTOMIZATION"
.PP
The DTE assumes that Elan's Documenter's Workbench (DWB) programs are available.
If another vendor's DWB is installed, or if alternate programs are desired,
environment variables may be set to define which programs will be used for the
various DWB components.
This feature is also useful if you want to pass special arguments to
these programs.
Below is a list of variables and the default values.
.sp
.nf
.ft CW
.in +1cm
TROFF          troff
NROFF          nroff
TYPESETTER     ps
DTE_OUTFILTER  eps
RMIFDEF        rmifdef
EQN            eqn
NEQN           neqn
PIC            pic
TBL            tbl
.in 0
.fi
.ft P
.PP
For example, to format for a Hewlett-Packard LaserJet printer, set the
environment variable TYPESETTER to \fIhplj\fP and DTE_OUTFILTER to \fIt2hplj\fP.
This will run \fItroff\fP with the flag -T\fIhplj\fP and pipe the
output though the program \fIt2hplj\fP.
\fItroff\fP output will be placed in the directory named Output/.../\fIhplj\fP.
.P
These environment variables may also be set in a configuration file
in a user's home directory called \fB.dterc\fP.
The syntax is that of the Bourne shell.
The variables need not be exported in the config file.

.SH "BUGS"
.PP
This command is intended for formatting entire books.
It would be nice to have commands for shorter works, like technical papers.
.PP
When trying to format a single piece of a book, glossary, table-of-contents,
or index, \fBbook-format\fP is not robust enough to recover from the user's
failure to do have previously done
\fBbook-format ... all\fP.
(\fBbook-format ... all\fP produces synchronization information about the
state between pieces.)
\fBbook-format\fP will exit ungracefully.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
dmm(1), dman(1), description(4), glossary(4)
.br
\fIDTE User's Guide and Reference\fP
