...\" Copyright 1991,1992,1993 Open Software Foundation, Inc.,
...\" Cambridge, Massachusetts
...\" All rights reserved.
...\"
...\" @OSF_FREE_COPYRIGHT@
...\"
...\" HISTORY
...\" $Log: description.4,v $
...\" Revision 1.1.2.5  1994/06/24  15:16:38  fred
...\" 	free copyright
...\" 	[1994/06/23  20:16:21  fred]
...\"
...\" Revision 1.1.2.4  1994/06/23  18:40:36  fred
...\" 	free copyright
...\" 	[1994/06/22  19:35:30  fred]
...\" 
...\" Revision 1.1.2.3  1993/04/10  01:23:00  bowe
...\" 	Add OSF copyright.
...\" 	[1993/04/10  01:20:49  bowe]
...\" 
...\" Revision 1.1.2.2  1992/07/07  22:26:33  bowe
...\" 	Initial rev.
...\" 	[1992/07/07  22:24:35  bowe]
...\" 
...\" $EndLog$
...\" $Header: /u1/rcs/dte/doc/user.gd/description.4,v 1.1.2.5 1994/06/24 15:16:38 fred Exp $
...\"
.TH description 4 
.SH NAME
description \- description file for book-format
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBdescription\fP
file contains instructions used by \fBbook-format(1)\fP for formatting a book.
\fBbook-format\fP, by default, looks in a file named \fIDescription\fP and
has an option to override the file name used.
The description file may have comments, that is lines whose first character
is `#', and blank lines.
.PP
Two types of information is specified in the description file.
The first is which `pieces' are processed to format the book.
Pieces are specified, one per line, in the information in white space
(blank or tab) separated columns.
The first column of the line is the name of that piece.
The second column is which troff macro package, either \fBmm\fP or \fBman\fP.
The rest of the line specifies which files (one or more) the piece should
be formatted from and some optional keywords used for special handling,
such as heading and page numbering.
These optional keywords are APPENDIX, PREFACE, and FRONT (in all capitals)
and should appear before file names.
Shell meta-characters and enviroment variables may be used in the file names.
Also, the output of commands (enclosed in back-quotes, or accent grave)
may be used in this place.  Caution is advised when using this.
.PP
The second type of information in the description file is special processing
instructions used by \fBbook-format\fP.
These special instructions must be on lines starting with \fB##\fP (two
pound signs) and containing one of the keywords.
Most of these directives are meant as a convenience so that users need
not type the same command line arguments every time \fBbook-format\fP is run.
Command line arguments override what is given in the description file.
.PP
A description of the keywords follows:
\fBBOOK BookName\fP will define the name of the book, as the
\fB-book\fP \fIname\fP command line argument to \fBbook-format\fP does.
The book name is important for glossary processing.
Because a book name usually remains constant, this mechanism saves the
writer the effort of typing the name on the command line each time
\fBbook-format\fP is run.
.PP
\fBDEFINE -D\fP\fIsymbol\fP \fB...\fP allows the writer to define symbols
as if given on the command line.
There may be multiple lines that use the \fBDEFINE\fP directive.
.PP
Directives are available to tell \fBbook-format\fP to use a specified format.
\fBTROFF\fP says to format with \fItroff\fP,
\fBNROFF\fP says to format with \fInroff\fP, and
\fBEXPRESS\fP says to format for the \fIexpress\fP page previewer.
\fBDRAFT\fP tells \fBbook-format\fP to use the draft look macros, while
\fBPUBLISH\fP tells \fBbook-format\fP to use the publish look macros.
(publish is only available at OSF).
.PP
The following directives tells \fBbook-format\fP to always skip some of the
extra processing done for the glossary, index, or table-of-contents
even when doing \fBbook-format ... all\fP.
\fBNO GLOSSARY\fP prevents glossary processing from being done,
\fBNO INDEX\fP prevents index processing from being done, and
\fBNO TOC\fP prevents table-of-contents processing from being done.
.PP
The \fBPRINTORDER\fP directive instructs \fBbook-format\fP to name the output
files so they list in the order the pieces appear in the Description file.
Names are preceded by a 3-digit number related to the piece number.
This allows one to print the files in order with \fIlpr *\fP.
Note: If the book has \fBFRONT\fP matter but no table of contents, a number
may be skipped.
This has the same effect as the \fB-printorder\fP argument to \fBbook-format\fP.
.PP
Instructions directing \fBbook-format\fP to use or not use SML macros
can be specified in the description file.
\fBSML\fP directs \fBbook-format\fP to use the SML macros,
as if \fI-sml\fP had been given in the command line, while
\fBNOSML\fP directs \fBbook-format\fP to not use the SML macros as,
if \fI-nosml\fP had been given.
.SH EXAMPLE
.sp
.nf
.ft CW
#  example Description file
title     mm      FRONT title.mm
preface   mm      PREFACE pref.mm
chap1     mm      intro.mm
chap2     mm      discussion.mm example.mm
chap3     mm      $HOME/pictures/examples.mm
appendix1 mm      APPENDIX my_app.mm
appendix2 man     APPENDIX man_pages/*.man

# special instructions
## BOOK MyBookName
## DEFINE -DSECURITY -DLOCAL
## NO GLOSSARY    skip processing glossary
## NO INDEX       skip index
## NO TOC         skip table-of-contents
## SML            use SML macros for all pieces
## DRAFT          format with the "draft" look
## TROFF          format with troff
## PRINTORDER     name output files so they list in order
.fi
.ft P
.PP

.SH FILES
\&./Description
.SH "SEE ALSO"
book-format(1)
