...\" Copyright 1991,1992,1993 Open Software Foundation, Inc.,
...\" Cambridge, Massachusetts
...\" All rights reserved.
...\"
...\" @OSF_FREE_COPYRIGHT@
...\"
...\" HISTORY
...\" $Log: glossary.4,v $
...\" Revision 1.1.2.5  1994/06/24  15:16:43  fred
...\" 	free copyright
...\" 	[1994/06/23  20:16:36  fred]
...\"
...\" Revision 1.1.2.4  1994/06/23  18:40:44  fred
...\" 	free copyright
...\" 	[1994/06/22  19:35:49  fred]
...\" 
...\" Revision 1.1.2.3  1993/04/10  01:23:04  bowe
...\" 	Add OSF copyright.
...\" 	[1993/04/10  01:20:56  bowe]
...\" 
...\" Revision 1.1.2.2  1992/07/07  22:26:46  bowe
...\" 	Initial rev.
...\" 	[1992/07/07  22:24:46  bowe]
...\" 
...\" $EndLog$
...\" $Header: /u1/rcs/dte/doc/user.gd/glossary.4,v 1.1.2.5 1994/06/24 15:16:43 fred Exp $
...\"
.TH glossary 4 
.SH NAME
glossary \- DTE glossary database format
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBglossary\fP
files contain information used by the DTE tools to generate a glossary.
The files are considered the glossary database.
The database is divided into 26 files, one for each letter of the alphabet.
File names follow the convention gloss\fIX\fP, where \fIX\fP is a capital
letter.
Glossary terms reside in the file whose last letter corresponds to the first
letter of the term.
This is done for efficiency and convenience.
.PP
The format of entries for each term is best discussed with an example:
.sp
.in 1.25i
|.# This is a comment.  Must start in first column.
.br
|.TERM|\fIterm\fP
.br
|.ACR|\fIacronym\fP
.br
.in 1.5i
|.DEFIN|\fI1\fP|\fIdefinition\fP
.br
.in 1.75i
|.XREF|
.br
|.BOOK|\fIbook name\fP
.br
|.BOOK|\fIanotherbook name\fP
.br
|.TOPIC|
.br
.in 1.5i
|.DEFIN|\fI2\fP|\fIdefinition\fP
.br
.in 1.75i
|.XREF|\fIcross-reference term\fP
.br
|.XREF|\fIanother cross-reference term\fP
.br
|.BOOK|
.br
|.TOPIC|\fItopic\fP
.in 0
.PP
All fields (TERM, ACR, DEFIN, XREF, BOOK, TOPIC) must be present,
though most may be null.
The above keywords must be in capital letters and the punctuation is
significant.
.PP
The TERM line must always be present.
Its maximum size is 65 characters.
There must be one and only one ACR line; it may be null.
Its maximum size is 10 characters.
.PP
There may be as many DEFIN lines as desired.
Definitions may span multiple lines,
and each line may be up to 200 characters in length.
The second subfield of this field is the number of the definition.
These should be sequential, starting at 1.
Each DEFIN must have at least one, possibly null, XREF, BOOK, and TOPIC
field (in that order).
There may be several XREF, BOOK, and TOPIC fields for each definition.
The maximum size for XREF and TOPIC fields is 65 characters,
while the maximum size for the BOOK field is 15 characters.
.PP
If a cross-reference is desired, but a definition is not, place a \fI*\fP
in the \fIdefinition\fP subfield.
This produces a ``See \fIcross-reference term\fP'' in the glossary instead
of a definition.
.PP
Comments may appear anywhere, though must begin in the leftmost column.
.SH FILES
$DTE_LIBDIR/glossary/gloss[A-Z]
.br
$DTE_LIBDIR/macros/bookdefs.mac	shows valid book names/IDs
.SH "SEE ALSO"
book-format(1)
